Hi Kim,

Attached are draft model files for the LGS trombone assembly.
There are still in a very rough-draft state but should give you an idea of what we are thinking.

As far as the block diagram: The AOSQ will specify an initial estimated for the sodium layer elevation (green arrow)
via a command. The assembly computes sodium layer range distance based on the current elevation
estimate and the telescope zenith angle from the TCS. Focus measurements from the RTC
modify the current range distance estimate is to create a new range distance estimate. This new range
distance is used to position the LGS trombone stage. The new range distance (and new corresponding elevation)
is published for the AOSEW  (i.e. AOSQ to update the LGS WFS trigger pulse delay and the RPG to update
reconstruction parameters). Finally the new elevation estimate is store as the current elevation for the next cycle.

We do not have any simulations or code for this yet.

‘theta’ is the telescope zenith angle, published by the TCS, used to compute the range distance
(i.e. the total distance to the sodium layer). If the telescope was pointed directly up (i.e. theta = 0)
the range distance and elevation would be equal.

‘g’ is a control gain used to scale the focus errors from the RTC. If g is too large the loop goes unstable,
if g is too small correction will be slow and lag.  g will be set based on the assembly’s discrete loop rate,
response time of the LGS trombone stage and accuracy of the RTC’s focus measurement. This is like a PID
loop where the proportional and derivative gains are zero and the integral gain is equal to g.

z-1 or 1/z (see z-transform) is a discrete-time unit delay. This acts as the integrator,
resulting in: elevation(t+1) =  cos(theta(t))*(elevation(t)/cos(theta(t)) + g*focusRangeDistanceError(t)),
where t is discrete time

The state.nss flag/switch is a special case. When the NFIRAOS Source Simulator (NSS) is
active, internal calibrations sources are inserted into the NFIRAOS optical path. The calibration LGS
sources slide on a track along the optical axis to simulate changes in the sodium layer elevation.
The TCS has no knowledge of the position these sources and the pointing of the telescope is irrelevant
in this case. Therefore when the LGS NSS is enabled the LGS Trombone assembly will ignore the zenith angle
stream from the TCS. Instead, for simplicity, the assembly assumes a zenith angle of zero, making the range
distance and elevation equal. The calibration LGS sources will be moved along the optical axis, as a result
the RTC will measure a focus error, and the LGS Trombone assembly control system will move the trombone according
to track the motion of the calibration sources. Note that if the zenith angle is set incorrectly the RTC
feedback loop will eventually compensate for that error. The zenith angle from the TCS is really only to speed
up the control process, compensating for focus shifts the assembly expects to see based on telescope pointing.

Let me know if you have any more question.
Dan